Federal police comply on Wednesday (13) warrants for search and seizure in offices of federal deputies Dulce Miranda (PMDB-TO) – Woman of the governor of Tocantins, Marcelo Miranda (PMDB) – and Carlos Henrique Amorim (Can-to), known as Gaguim.

The action is part of the sixth phase of Operation Ápia, which aims at alleged corruption scheme of public servants and political agents, frauds to public bids and contracts concluded for earthworks and asphalt paving on state highways. The values of these works, according to the investigators, outweigh the R $850 million.

In all, 16 search and seizure warrants are being fulfilled and eight more subpoenas. In addition to the offices in the house, the PF searched the functional apartment of the deputy in Brasilia, and the house in which she lives with the governor in Palmas. He, however, was not the subject of judicial measures.

The new phase is a consequence of award-winning delation signed by the PGR (Attorney General of the Republic) and approved by the Minister Alexandre de Moraes, of the Supreme Court (STF). The records are under wraps.
The collaborator is the entrepreneur Rossine Ayres Guimarães, owner of the construction company CRT (Rio Tocantins), who would have paid tuition to politicians involved in the crimes under investigation. The entrepreneur was the business partner of the game manager Carlos Augusto Ramos, the Carlinhos Cachoeira, and investigated together with him in Operation Monte Carlo in 2011, which motivated a CPI (parliamentary committee of Inquiry) in Congress.
The contracts now under investigation, allegedly frauds, were funded by public resources captured by the State through international loans and in the BNDES (National Bank for Economic and Social development), with Banco do Brasil as an agent Financing of R $1.2 billion.
 "The resources acquired had the Federal union as Guaran [Guaradora] of the debt contracted with Banco do Brasil and were baptized by the state government as programs Proinveste and Proestado ," said the PF.
The investigation indicates that there was direction of public hiring by paying the bribe of entrepreneurs who owned builders who did not perform the services.
 "The political core of the criminal association was responsible for securing hiring and receiving undue public funds from the Corruptor entrepreneurs," added PF.
The crimes in investigation are those of passive corruption and money laundering resulting from various payments from CRT to those involved.
Dulce Miranda said in a statement that he respects the work of the judiciary and the police.  "However, I do not know the content of the process and the investigation. I am at the disposal of justice to clarify all the necessary facts. I have every interest in demonstrating my clear and absolute innocence, "he said.
 "I will continue to do my work with the love and dedication of always, exercising the parliamentary mandate with transparency, honor and probity. These values I carry in the personal life and in the exercise of public positions , "he added.
