Minister of the Supreme Court authorizes the breach of Aecio Neves ' sigyls
Aecio Neves ' trajectory

Minister Marco Aurélio, of the Supreme Court (STF), authorized the breach of the banking and fiscal sigyls of Senator Aécio Neves (PSDB-MG), his sister, Andrea Neves, his cousin Frederico Pacheco and Mendherson de Souza, former of Senator Zezé Perrella ( PMDB-MG), in addition to two companies linked to them.

They were denated by corruption scam for allegedly receiving R $2 million in JBS's kickoff.

Now, PGR (Attorney General of the Republic) will analyze the data. The period of the breach of secrecy goes from January 1, 2014 to May 18, 2017, when the four were targets of Operation Patmos, provoked by the revelations of JBS executives in award-winning delation agreement.

The breach of secrecy was requested by PGR, which claimed the need for access to information to track the origin and purpose of the resources.

 "The situation of this process falls within the constitutional prediction, proving to be relevant to the Federal Public prosecutor's claim. Everything should aim to elucidate the facts, defining, if applicable, responsibilities  ", wrote the minister in the decision, signed on November 27, but which became known on Thursday (7).

In another decision, the magistrate revoked the house arrest of Andrea, Pacheco and Mendherson, in addition to removing the need for them to use electronic anklets.

In a statement, the senator's defense states that the data has always been available:  "The banking and fiscal sigyls of Senator Aécio Neves have always been at the disposal of justice, and since October, when this decision was made, the defense reiterates that it is a measure Extremely natural and saluting to confirm the absolute correction of their acts  ", informs the text.

The breach of parliamentary secrecy has already been authorised by Supreme Ministers at Lava Jato.

In December 2015, Marcus Aurélio authorized the breach of the banking and fiscal secrecy of the then President of the Senate, Renan Calheiros (PMDB-AL).

In January 2016, the then President of the Chamber, Eduardo Cunha (PMDB-RJ), had the bank and tax sigyls broken between the period 2005 to 2014. The decision also reached his wife and daughter, as well as three family-related companies, and was given by Minister Teori Zavascki, then the reporter for Lava Jato, who died in an air accident in January 2017.

A few months later, Senator Romero Jucá (PMDB-RR) also had the broken secrets under the determination of Marcus Aurelius.

* Operation Patmos *

Aécio was secretly recorded by the entrepreneur Joesley Batista, owner of JBS, asking for R $2 million to pay a lawyer to defend him at Lava Jato.

The money was initially requested by Andrea Neves.

With the permission of the STF, the Federal police filmed the payment of a parcel.

Ricardo Saud, J&F executive, who controls JBS, handed R $500,000 to Frederico Pacheco, who then passed the money to Mendherson.

In the analysis of the material seized in the search of the day of seizure, the Federal police points to the suspicion that Aécio has used two cellphones with lines in names of  "oranges " to make secret calls. 